Chapter III
Introduction
Welcome to the Cyber Archives Training Program!
The Head Archivist has assigned you to the Digital Preservation Division. Your training
consists of five critical missions, each building your expertise in data handling:
• Mission 0: Ancient Text Recovery - Retrieve data from old storage units
• Mission 1: Archive Creation - Establish new data preservation protocols
• Mission 2: Stream Management - Master the three data channels
• Mission 3: Vault Security - Implement failsafe storage procedures
• Mission 4: Crisis Response - Handle corrupted archives and access failures
Each mission simulates real archival scenarios. The systems you’ll work with may seem
simple, but they form the foundation of all digital preservation. Master these fundamentals, and you’ll be ready to protect humanity’s digital heritage.
ARCHIVE PROTOCOL: All operations must follow strict data
preservation standards. Corrupted archives mean lost knowledge
forever.
5
Chapter IV
Training Resources
The Archives provide essential training materials in the attachments/ directory:
• Tools Archive: Extract data-generator-tools.tar.gz to access the training
toolkit
• Data Generator: Execute python3 data_generator.py to create training files
required for Exercise 0 (ancient_fragment.txt) and Exercise 4 (standard_archive.txt
and other test files)
• Sample Data: Reference examples available in data_samples/ to understand
expected data formats and structures
• JSON Configuration: The file sample_data.json contains metadata and test
scenario information for reference purposes only
Extract the tools archive first: tar -xzf
data-generator-tools.tar.gz
Then generate your training data before beginning the exercises. The
Archives’ security protocols require specific file structures and
content formats for proper evaluation.
6
Chapter V
Archivist Training Protocol
Welcome to the Cyber Archives Training Program. As a Data Archivist
trainee, you’ll master the ancient arts of file manipulation and
resource management that have protected digital knowledge for
centuries.
V.1 Core Principles
The Archivist’s Code: Every file operation must be secure, every resource properly
managed, and every error gracefully handled. The Archives have survived digital catastrophes because archivists follow these sacred protocols.
The examples provided in each exercise demonstrate the expected
behavior. Study them carefully—they contain the wisdom of master
archivists who came before you.
V.2 Technical Requirements
Your training programs must demonstrate mastery of:
• Python 3.10+: All programs must be written in Python 3.10 or later
• Code Quality: Your code must respect the flake8 linter standards
• Type Hints: All functions and methods must include type hints
• File Operations: Reading from and writing to storage vaults
• Stream Management: Proper use of input, output, and alert channels
• Context Managers: The sacred with protocol for resource safety
• Error Handling: Crisis response using try-except protocols
7
Data Archivist Digital Preservation in the Cyber Archives
V.3 Authorized Libraries
For data processing operations, you are authorized to use:
• Standard library: sys module for stream management
• Built-in functions: open(), read(), write(), close(), print(), input()
Failure to properly close file handles has caused data corruption
throughout history. Always use the with statement when accessing
storage vaults—it’s not just good practice, it’s survival.
V.4 Output Specifications
Each exercise provides terminal examples showing the expected output format. While
the core structure must be maintained, you may customize messages to reflect your understanding of the Archives’ operations, as long as the essential information is preserved.
Pro Archivist Tip: The best archivists add their own personality to
the system messages while maintaining professional standards. Make
the Archives feel alive with your unique touch!
What makes a good Data Archivist? One who understands that every
file is a piece of history worth preserving, and every operation is a
responsibility to future generations.
8
Chapter VI
Exercise 0: Ancient Text Recovery
Exercise0
ft_ancient_text
Directory: ex0/
Files to Submit: ft_ancient_text.py
Authorized: open(), read(), close(), print()
Mission Briefing: The Archives have discovered an ancient data
fragment in Storage Vault 7. Your first assignment as a Data
Archivist is to recover this precious information before it degrades
further. Legend says it contains wisdom from the era when developers
actually wrote documentation!
Data Source: Use the provided data generator to create your test file:
Run:
python3 data_generator.py to create ancient_fragment.txt with the
required data.
Your program must read from this exact filename; the Archives
security protocols are very specific about file naming conventions.
Archive Recovery Protocol: Access the storage unit containing ancient_fragment.txt,
extract all preserved data, and display the recovery process. Think of it as digital archaeology—you’re uncovering lost wisdom from the depths of the storage matrix.
9
Data Archivist Digital Preservation in the Cyber Archives
If the vault is inaccessible, your program should display: ERROR:
Storage vault not found. Run data generator first. Remember: a
good archivist always checks if the vault exists before attempting
access. Trying to read non-existent files is like trying to open a
door that isn’t there—it never ends well.
Expected Output: Your program must display the system header, vault access status,
recovered data with proper formatting, and completion confirmation. The terminal example shows the exact format, but you may add your own archivist personality to the
messages as long as the core information is preserved.
Recovery log:
$> python3 ft_ancient_text.py
=== CYBER ARCHIVES - DATA RECOVERY SYSTEM ===
Accessing Storage Vault: ancient_fragment.txt
Connection established...
RECOVERED DATA:
[FRAGMENT 001] Digital preservation protocols established 2087
[FRAGMENT 002] Knowledge must survive the entropy wars
[FRAGMENT 003] Every byte saved is a victory against oblivion
Data recovery complete. Storage unit disconnected.
What happens to the storage system if connections aren’t properly
closed? Why is the disconnect protocol critical?
10
Chapter VII
Exercise 1: Archive Creation
s
Exercise1
ft_archive_creation
Directory: ex1/
Files to Submit: ft_archive_creation.py
Authorized: open(), write(), close(), print()
Mission Briefing: Excellent work on the data recovery! The Head
Archivist is impressed. Your next assignment: establish a new
preservation protocol by creating fresh archive entries. Time to
make history instead of just reading it!
Archive Creation Protocol: Establish a new storage unit named new_discovery.txt
and inscribe three critical data entries: quantum algorithm breakthrough information,
performance improvement metrics (347% efficiency gain), and archivist identification.
Think of it as writing a digital time capsule for future generations.
Remember that preservation mode creates new archives or replaces
existing ones. Unlike reading, writing is permanent—once you seal
the vault, the data becomes part of the eternal Archives.
Expected Output: Your program must display the system header, storage unit initialization, data inscription with numbered entries, and completion confirmation. The
terminal example shows the expected format, but feel free to add your own archival flourishes.
11
Data Archivist Digital Preservation in the Cyber Archives
Be careful with write operations! In the real Archives, accidentally
overwriting historical data is considered a crime against knowledge
itself. Always double-check your file names.
Archive log:
$> python3 ft_archive_creation.py
=== CYBER ARCHIVES - PRESERVATION SYSTEM ===
Initializing new storage unit: new_discovery.txt
Storage unit created successfully...
Inscribing preservation data...
[ENTRY 001] New quantum algorithm discovered
[ENTRY 002] Efficiency increased by 347%
[ENTRY 003] Archived by Data Archivist trainee
Data inscription complete. Storage unit sealed.
Archive 'new_discovery.txt' ready for long-term preservation.
What’s the critical difference between extraction mode (’r’)
and preservation mode (’w’)? Why is this distinction vital for
archivists?
12
Chapter VIII
Exercise 2: Stream Management
Exercise2
ft_stream_management
Directory: ex2/
Files to Submit: ft_stream_management.py
Authorized: sys, sys.stdin, sys.stdout, sys.stderr, input(), print()
Mission Briefing: Outstanding archive work! The Head Archivist
has a new challenge for you. The Archives operate through three
sacred data channels that have been active since the founding of
digital civilization. These channels are older than the internet
itself—they’re the digital equivalent of ancient trade routes.
Communication Protocol: Access the three sacred data channels of the Archives—input
stream, standard channel, and alert channel. Collect archivist identification and status
information, then demonstrate proper channel separation by routing different message
types to their appropriate streams.
Think of the streams like different communication frequencies: stdin
for receiving messages, stdout for normal broadcasts, and stderr for
emergency alerts. Each has its purpose in the grand communication
network.
Expected Output: Your program must display the system header, collect user input
for archivist ID and status report, then output messages using the correct streams: standard messages via sys.stdout and alerts via sys.stderr. Complete with a successful
communication test confirmation.
13
Data Archivist Digital Preservation in the Cyber Archives
Never mix your streams! Sending alerts through the standard channel
is like shouting "FIRE!" in a library whisper—it defeats the purpose
and confuses everyone.
Communication log:
$> python3 ft_stream_management.py
=== CYBER ARCHIVES - COMMUNICATION SYSTEM ===
Input Stream active. Enter archivist ID: ARCH_7742
Input Stream active. Enter status report: All systems nominal
[STANDARD] Archive status from ARCH_7742: All systems nominal
[ALERT] System diagnostic: Communication channels verified
[STANDARD] Data transmission complete
Three-channel communication test successful.
Why do the Archives maintain separate channels for standard data and
alerts? What could happen if these streams were mixed?
14
Chapter IX
Exercise 3: Vault Security
Exercise3
ft_vault_security
Directory: ex3/
Files to Submit: ft_vault_security.py
Authorized: open(), read(), write(), print()
This exercise requires the use of the ’with’ statement (context
manager) to ensure proper file handling. The ’with’ statement
automatically closes files even if errors occur, preventing data
corruption and resource leaks.
Mission Briefing: Impressive communication skills! The Head
Archivist has noticed your potential and is promoting you to Vault
Security operations. This is where the real archivists prove
themselves. Welcome to the big leagues—where one mistake can corrupt
centuries of knowledge.
The Archives have learned from centuries of data loss. The ancient with protocol was
developed after the Great Data Corruption of 2089, when thousands of archives were lost
because connections weren’t properly closed during system failures.
The Sac red Protocol: When you open a vault with the with statement,
three things happen automatically: the vault opens, your operations
execute safely within its protective barrier, and the vault seals
itself—even if something goes wrong. It’s like having a digital
bodyguard for your files.
15
Data Archivist Digital Preservation in the Cyber Archives
Vault Security Protocol: Implement secure file operations using the with statement
for both reading classified data and preserving new information. Your program should
demonstrate automatic vault sealing regardless of operation success or failure, with professional security logging throughout.
This is the essence of secure resource management: acquire, use,
release—guaranteed. Without the with statement, you’re basically
leaving vault doors open in a digital hurricane. Don’t be that
archivist.
Security log:
$> python3 ft_vaul_security.py
=== CYBER ARCHIVES - VAULT SECURITY SYSTEM ===
Initiating secure vault access...
Vault connection established with failsafe protocols
SECURE EXTRACTION:
[CLASSIFIED] Quantum encryption keys recovered
[CLASSIFIED] Archive integrity: 100%
SECURE PRESERVATION:
[CLASSIFIED] New security protocols archived
Vault automatically sealed upon completion
All vault operations completed with maximum security.
How does the with protocol prevent data corruption? What is the
RAII principle and why is it crucial for vault security?
16
Chapter X
Exercise 4: Crisis Response
Exercise4
ft_crisis_response
Directory: ex4/
Files to Submit: ft_crisis_response.py
Authorized: open(), read(), write(), print()
This exercise requires the use of both the ’with’ statement for
safe file handling and try/except blocks for error handling. You
must handle FileNotFoundError, PermissionError, and other exceptions
gracefully while ensuring files are properly closed even when errors
occur.
Mission Briefing: Exceptional vault security work! clearance
level. The Head Archivist has one final test: Crisis Response
operations. This is the ultimate trial—where archivists prove they
can handle the chaos of real-world data disasters.
Data Preparation:
Run: python3 tools/data_generator.py to create test files including
standard_archive.txt and other test files. Your program will test
access to various files to simulate different crisis scenarios.
17
Data Archivist Digital Preservation in the Cyber Archives
Crisis Response Protocol: Develop a comprehensive crisis management system that
implements a crisis handler function for archive operations. The system must manage
different types of archive access failures gracefully using failsafe protocols combined with
the with statement to prevent data corruption during errors.
In the real Archives, crises happen daily: corrupted files, missing
data, security breaches. A master archivist doesn’t panic—they
respond with precision and grace, ensuring the system remains stable
no matter what chaos unfolds.
Crisis Categories: Handle missing archives in the storage matrix, security protocol
violations, unexpected system anomalies, and successful operations. Test with access attempts to non-existent archives, security-restricted vaults, and standard archive recovery
operations.
Expected Output: Your program must display crisis alerts for each access attempt, appropriate response messages based on error types (FileNotFoundError, PermissionError,
or other exceptions), status confirmations, and overall security completion. The terminal example shows the expected format—follow it precisely for consistency across the
Archives network.
Crisis log:
$> python3 ft_crisis_response.py
=== CYBER ARCHIVES - CRISIS RESPONSE SYSTEM ===
CRISIS ALERT: Attempting access to 'lost_archive.txt'...
RESPONSE: Archive not found in storage matrix
STATUS: Crisis handled, system stable
CRISIS ALERT: Attempting access to 'classified_vault.txt'...
RESPONSE: Security protocols deny access
STATUS: Crisis handled, security maintained
ROUTINE ACCESS: Attempting access to 'standard_archive.txt'...
SUCCESS: Archive recovered - ``Knowledge preserved for humanity''
STATUS: Normal operations resumed
All crisis scenarios handled successfully. Archives secure.
What are the most dangerous threats to digital archives? How
does proper crisis response prevent data loss and maintain system
stability?