Code Nexus
Polymorphic Data Streams in the Digital Matrix
Summary: Enter the Code Nexus as a Stream Engineer! Master method overriding and
subtype polymorphism while building advanced data processing pipelines that adapt and
evolve in real-time through the digital matrix.
Version: 2.0
Contents
I Foreword 2
II AI Instructions 3
III Introduction 5
IV Engineering Guidelines 7
IV.1 Nexus Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
IV.2 Stream Engineering Principles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
V Exercise 0: Data Processor Foundation 9
VI Exercise 1: Polymorphic Streams 12
VII Exercise 2: Nexus Integration 15
VIII Turn in and Submission 19
1
Chapter I
Foreword
Welcome to the Code Nexus, Stream Engineer!
The year is 2087. In the sprawling digital metropolis of Neo-Tokyo, data flows through
quantum fiber networks like neon-bright rivers of pure information. The Code Nexus
stands as humanity’s greatest achievement—a cybernetic cathedral where billions of data
streams converge, transform, and evolve in perfect harmony.
But the Nexus holds a secret that separates it from the crude data processors of the
past: it doesn’t just consume data—it understands it. Each data stream carries its own
digital signature, its own behavioral patterns, its own electronic soul. Financial transactions pulse with the rhythm of global markets. Sensor readings whisper the secrets of
environmental change. Neural network outputs sing with artificial consciousness.
How does a single system comprehend such diversity? Through the cybernetic principle of polymorphism—the art of creating digital chameleons that adapt their behavior
while maintaining their core identity. In the old world, engineers built rigid, specialized
systems. The Nexus transcends this limitation through method overriding, where the
same processing node becomes a shapeshifter, handling any data stream while honoring
its unique nature.
As a Stream Engineer in the Nexus, you’ll master the forbidden knowledge of inheritance hierarchies—digital bloodlines that pass traits from parent to child while allowing
each generation to evolve beyond its origins. You’ll learn that overriding a method isn’t
just changing code—it’s rewriting the genetic code of the digital organism itself.
The chrome towers of the Nexus await your expertise. Every data stream you engineer
will be a testament to polymorphic design—where unified interfaces dance with specialized behaviors, creating systems that are both harmonious and infinitely adaptable.
Welcome to the future. Welcome to the Code Nexus.
2
Chapter II
AI Instructions
● Context
During your learning journey, AI can assist with many different tasks. Take the time to
explore the various capabilities of AI tools and how they can support your work. However, always approach them with caution and critically assess the results. Whether it’s
code, documentation, ideas, or technical explanations, you can never be completely sure
that your question was well-formed or that the generated content is accurate. Your peers
are a valuable resource to help you avoid mistakes and blind spots.
● Main message
☛ Use AI to reduce repetitive or tedious tasks.
☛ Develop prompting skills — both coding and non-coding — that will benefit your
future career.
☛ Learn how AI systems work to better anticipate and avoid common risks, biases,
and ethical issues.
☛ Continue building both technical and power skills by working with your peers.
☛ Only use AI-generated content that you fully understand and can take responsibility
for.
● Learner rules:
• You should take the time to explore AI tools and understand how they work, so
you can use them ethically and reduce potential biases.
• You should reflect on your problem before prompting — this helps you write clearer,
more detailed, and more relevant prompts using accurate vocabulary.
• You should develop the habit of systematically checking, reviewing, questioning,
and testing anything generated by AI.
• You should always seek peer review — don’t rely solely on your own validation.
3
Code Nexus Polymorphic Data Streams in the Digital Matrix
● Phase outcomes:
• Develop both general-purpose and domain-specific prompting skills.
• Boost your productivity with effective use of AI tools.
• Continue strengthening computational thinking, problem-solving, adaptability, and
collaboration.
● Comments and examples:
• You’ll regularly encounter situations — exams, evaluations, and more — where
you must demonstrate real understanding. Be prepared, keep building both your
technical and interpersonal skills.
• Explaining your reasoning and debating with peers often reveals gaps in your understanding. Make peer learning a priority.
• AI tools often lack your specific context and tend to provide generic responses. Your
peers, who share your environment, can offer more relevant and accurate insights.
• Where AI tends to generate the most likely answer, your peers can provide alternative perspectives and valuable nuance. Rely on them as a quality checkpoint.
✓ Good practice:
I ask AI: “How do I test a sorting function?” It gives me a few ideas. I try them out
and review the results with a peer. We refine the approach together.
✗ Bad practice:
I ask AI to write a whole function, copy-paste it into my project. During peerevaluation, I can’t explain what it does or why. I lose credibility — and I fail my
project.
✓ Good practice:
I use AI to help design a parser. Then I walk through the logic with a peer. We catch
two bugs and rewrite it together — better, cleaner, and fully understood.
✗ Bad practice:
I let Copilot generate my code for a key part of my project. It compiles, but I can’t
explain how it handles pipes. During the evaluation, I fail to justify and I fail my
project.
4
Chapter III
Introduction
NEXUS CLEARANCE LEVEL: STREAM ENGINEER INITIATE
The chrome spires of the Code Nexus pierce the neon-soaked sky of Neo-Tokyo, their
quantum processors humming with the collective consciousness of a trillion data streams.
You stand at the threshold of digital transcendence, ready to join the elite ranks of Stream
Engineers who keep the Nexus alive.
Your Neural Interface Activation Sequence:
• Phase Alpha: Data Processor Foundation - Forge your first neural pathways
with method overriding
• Phase Beta: Polymorphic Streams - Evolve adaptive data organisms through
inheritance
• Phase Gamma: Nexus Integration - Architect the ultimate multi-stream consciousness
Each phase rewrites your digital DNA, teaching you to think not in rigid code, but in
living interfaces and evolving implementations. By the final phase, you’ll understand the Nexus’s deepest secret: how a single consciousness can process infinite data
forms while maintaining perfect digital harmony.
5
Code Nexus Polymorphic Data Streams in the Digital Matrix
NEXUS CORE DIRECTIVE: This neural conditioning focuses on method
overriding and subtype polymorphism. Your digital organisms must
demonstrate how different classes share common neural pathways while
expressing unique behavioral patterns through inheritance.
STREAM ENGINEER PROTOCOL: All Nexus operatives must achieve mastery
of polymorphic design patterns. The digital matrix’s survival
depends on systems that evolve without fragmenting their core
interfaces.
NEURAL DIAGNOSTIC SUITE: A main.py diagnostic program interfaces
directly with your implementations. This neural probe will
only achieve synchronization if you’ve properly architected all
required digital organisms. Execute python3 main.py to verify your
polymorphic constructs are achieving consciousness.
6
Chapter IV
Engineering Guidelines
IV.1 Nexus Standards
• Your project must be written in Python 3.10 or later.
• Your project must adhere to the flake8 coding standard.
• All code must include comprehensive type annotations using the typing
module.
• All classes must demonstrate proper inheritance relationships.
• Method overriding must be used purposefully to show specialized behavior.
• Exception handling should protect the data streams from corruption.
• Only standard library imports are authorized unless specified.
• Focus on demonstrating polymorphic behavior clearly in your implementations.
Required Type Annotations:
All code must include comprehensive type annotations using the typing module:
• Import required types: from typing import Any, List, Dict, Union, Optional
• Import ABC classes: from abc import ABC, abstractmethod
• All function parameters must have type annotations
• All function return types must be specified
• Class attributes should be typed where appropriate
Example: def process(self, data: Any) -> str:
7
Code Nexus Polymorphic Data Streams in the Digital Matrix
IV.2 Stream Engineering Principles
• Interface Consistency: Overridden methods must maintain the same signature
as their parent methods.
• Behavioral Specialization: Each subclass should provide meaningful, distinct
behavior.
• Polymorphic Usage: Demonstrate that different objects can be used interchangeably through common interfaces.
• Inheritance Hierarchy: Build logical class relationships that reflect real-world
data processing concepts.
The Code Nexus operates on a simple principle: same interface,
different behavior. When you call the same method on different
objects, each should respond in its own specialized way while
maintaining interface compatibility.
8
Chapter V
Exercise 0: Data Processor
Foundation
Exercise0
stream_processor
Directory: ex0/
Files to Submit: stream_processor.py
Authorized: print()
This exercise requires the use of classes with inheritance, the
super() function, try/except blocks for error handling, and ABC
(Abstract Base Class) with @abstractmethod decorators. Type hints
from the typing module (Any, List, Dict, Union, Optional) must be
used throughout.
Engineering Brief: Welcome to the Code Nexus! Build the foundation
of our data processing system. You’ll create the base processor
architecture and demonstrate how different data types can share
common processing interfaces while maintaining their unique
characteristics.
Your Mission: Create a polymorphic data processing system that demonstrates method
overriding. Build a base DataProcessor class and specialized processors for different data
types.
System Architecture:
• Base Class: DataProcessor - an abstract base class defining the common processing interface
9
Code Nexus Polymorphic Data Streams in the Digital Matrix
• Specialized Classes: NumericProcessor(), TextProcessor(), LogProcessor()
(no constructor parameters required)
• Required Methods (must be implemented in all classes):
◦ process(self, data: Any) -> str - Process the data and return result
string
◦ validate(self, data: Any) -> bool - Validate if data is appropriate for
this processor
◦ format_output(self, result: str) -> str - Format the output string
• Polymorphic Behavior: Same method calls, different specialized behaviors
Required Implementation:
• Create a DataProcessor abstract base class using ABC and @abstractmethod
• Mark process() and validate() as abstract methods
• Provide a default implementation for format_output() that can be overridden
• Override abstract methods in subclasses to provide specialized behavior
• Demonstrate polymorphic usage by processing different data types through the
same interface
• Include proper error handling for invalid data
Focus on demonstrating how method overriding allows different
processors to handle their specific data types while maintaining a
consistent interface. This is the foundation of polymorphic design!
Example:
$> python3 stream_processor.py
=== CODE NEXUS - DATA PROCESSOR FOUNDATION ===
Initializing Numeric Processor...
Processing data: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
Validation: Numeric data verified
Output: Processed 5 numeric values, sum=15, avg=3.0
Initializing Text Processor...
Processing data: "Hello Nexus World"
Validation: Text data verified
Output: Processed text: 17 characters, 3 words
Initializing Log Processor...
Processing data: "ERROR: Connection timeout"
Validation: Log entry verified
Output: [ALERT] ERROR level detected: Connection timeout
=== Polymorphic Processing Demo ===
10
Code Nexus Polymorphic Data Streams in the Digital Matrix
Processing multiple data types through same interface...
Result 1: Processed 3 numeric values, sum=6, avg=2.0
Result 2: Processed text: 12 characters, 2 words
Result 3: [INFO] INFO level detected: System ready
Foundation systems online. Nexus ready for advanced streams.
How does method overriding enable the same processing interface to
handle completely different data types? What makes this approach
more powerful than separate processing functions?
11
Chapter VI
Exercise 1: Polymorphic Streams
Exercise1
data_stream
Directory: ex1/
Files to Submit: data_stream.py
Authorized: isinstance(), print()
This exercise requires the use of classes with inheritance, super(),
try/except blocks, list comprehensions for data processing, and ABC
with @abstractmethod. Type hints from the typing module must be
used. The isinstance() function is needed for type checking.
Engineering Brief: Excellent foundation work! Your processor
architecture. Now for the real challenge: building adaptive data
streams that can handle multiple data types simultaneously while
maintaining processing efficiency and type safety.
Your Mission: Create a sophisticated data streaming system that demonstrates advanced polymorphic behavior. Build stream handlers that can process mixed data types
while maintaining type-specific optimizations.
Advanced Architecture:
• Stream Base: DataStream - an abstract base class with core streaming functionality
• Specialized Streams: SensorStream(stream_id), TransactionStream(stream_id),
EventStream(stream_id)
12
Code Nexus Polymorphic Data Streams in the Digital Matrix
• Required Methods (must be implemented in DataStream and overridden in subclasses):
◦ process_batch(self, data_batch: List[Any]) -> str - Process a batch
of data
◦ filter_data(self, data_batch: List[Any], criteria: Optional[str]
= None) -> List[Any] - Filter data based on criteria
◦ get_stats(self) -> Dict[str, Union[str, int, float]] - Return stream
statistics
• Stream Manager: StreamProcessor that handles multiple stream types polymorphically
• Advanced Features: Batch processing, filtering, transformation pipelines
Required Implementation:
• Create a DataStream abstract base class with process_batch() as an abstract
method
• Provide default implementations for filter_data() and get_stats() that can be
overridden
• Implement specialized stream classes with overridden behavior for different data
domains
• Build a StreamProcessor that can handle any stream type through polymorphism
• Demonstrate batch processing of mixed stream types
• Include stream filtering and transformation capabilities
• Add comprehensive error handling for stream processing failures
This exercise demonstrates subtype polymorphism in action. Your
StreamProcessor should be able to handle any DataStream subtype
without knowing the specific implementation details. This is the
power of polymorphic design!
13
Code Nexus Polymorphic Data Streams in the Digital Matrix
Example:
$> python3 data_stream.py
=== CODE NEXUS - POLYMORPHIC STREAM SYSTEM ===
Initializing Sensor Stream...
Stream ID: SENSOR_001, Type: Environmental Data
Processing sensor batch: [temp:22.5, humidity:65, pressure:1013]
Sensor analysis: 3 readings processed, avg temp: 22.5°C
Initializing Transaction Stream...
Stream ID: TRANS_001, Type: Financial Data
Processing transaction batch: [buy:100, sell:150, buy:75]
Transaction analysis: 3 operations, net flow: +25 units
Initializing Event Stream...
Stream ID: EVENT_001, Type: System Events
Processing event batch: [login, error, logout]
Event analysis: 3 events, 1 error detected
=== Polymorphic Stream Processing ===
Processing mixed stream types through unified interface...
Batch 1 Results:
- Sensor data: 2 readings processed
- Transaction data: 4 operations processed
- Event data: 3 events processed
Stream filtering active: High-priority data only
Filtered results: 2 critical sensor alerts, 1 large transaction
All streams processed successfully. Nexus throughput optimal.
How does polymorphism allow the StreamProcessor to handle different
stream types without knowing their specific implementations? What
are the benefits of this design approach?
14
Chapter VII
Exercise 2: Nexus Integration
Exercise2
nexus_pipeline
Directory: ex2/
Files to Submit: nexus_pipeline.py
Authorized: isinstance(), print(), collections
This exercise requires the use of classes with inheritance, super(),
try/except blocks, list and dict comprehensions for data processing,
ABC with @abstractmethod, and Protocol for duck typing. The
collections module is authorized for advanced data structures.
Type hints from typing module (including Protocol) must be used
throughout.
Engineering Brief: Outstanding stream engineering! Your promotion
to Senior Stream Engineer. Your final challenge: integrate
everything into a complete data processing pipeline that demonstrates
mastery of polymorphic architecture at enterprise scale.
Your Mission: Build the complete Code Nexus data processing pipeline—a sophisticated system that combines multiple processing stages, handles complex data transformations, and demonstrates advanced polymorphic patterns used in real-world data
engineering.
Enterprise Architecture:
• Pipeline Base: ProcessingPipeline - an abstract base class with configurable
stages
15
Code Nexus Polymorphic Data Streams in the Digital Matrix
• Processing Stages: InputStage(), TransformStage(), OutputStage() (no constructor parameters required)
◦ Each stage must implement: process(self, data: Any) -> Any
• Data Adapters: JSONAdapter(pipeline_id), CSVAdapter(pipeline_id),
StreamAdapter(pipeline_id)
◦ Each adapter must override: process(self, data: Any) -> Union[str,
Any]
• Pipeline Manager: NexusManager orchestrating multiple pipelines
• Advanced Features: Pipeline chaining, error recovery, performance monitoring
Class Diagram - Architecture Overview:
The following UML class diagram illustrates the complete architecture, showing inheritance relationships, composition patterns, and the distinction between Protocol (duck
typing) and ABC (abstract base class). This diagram clarifies which classes inherit from
which, and how stages relate to pipelines.
Architecture Explanation:
16
Code Nexus Polymorphic Data Streams in the Digital Matrix
• ProcessingStage (Protocol): Interface for stages using duck typing. Any class
with process() can act as a stage.
• ProcessingPipeline (ABC): Abstract base managing stages. Contains a list of
stages and orchestrates data flow.
• Stage Classes: InputStage, TransformStage, OutputStage implement the Protocol (duck typing, no inheritance). No constructor parameters.
• Adapter Classes: JSONAdapter, CSVAdapter, StreamAdapter inherit from ProcessingPipelineand override process(). Each takes pipeline_id parameter.
• NexusManager: Orchestrates multiple pipelines polymorphically.
• Key Relationships: Composition (contains), Inheritance (inherits from), Implementation (implements protocol).
Required Implementation:
• Create a flexible ProcessingPipeline abstract base class with configurable processing stages
• Use Protocol or duck typing for stage interfaces (stages must have a process()
method)
• Implement specialized pipeline stages (InputStage, TransformStage, OutputStage)
with process() methods
• Build data adapters (JSONAdapter, CSVAdapter, StreamAdapter) that inherit
from ProcessingPipeline
• Each adapter should override the process() method for format-specific handling
• Create a NexusManager that orchestrates multiple pipelines polymorphically
• Demonstrate pipeline chaining where output from one pipeline feeds into another
• Include comprehensive error handling and recovery mechanisms
• Add performance monitoring and pipeline statistics
This is your masterpiece! Demonstrate how method overriding and
subtype polymorphism enable building complex, maintainable systems.
Your pipeline should handle any data type or processing requirement
through polymorphic interfaces.
17
Code Nexus Polymorphic Data Streams in the Digital Matrix
Example:
$> python3 nexus_pipeline.py
=== CODE NEXUS - ENTERPRISE PIPELINE SYSTEM ===
Initializing Nexus Manager...
Pipeline capacity: 1000 streams/second
Creating Data Processing Pipeline...
Stage 1: Input validation and parsing
Stage 2: Data transformation and enrichment
Stage 3: Output formatting and delivery
=== Multi-Format Data Processing ===
Processing JSON data through pipeline...
Input: {"sensor": "temp", "value": 23.5, "unit": "C"}
Transform: Enriched with metadata and validation
Output: Processed temperature reading: 23.5°C (Normal range)
Processing CSV data through same pipeline...
Input: "user,action,timestamp"
Transform: Parsed and structured data
Output: User activity logged: 1 actions processed
Processing Stream data through same pipeline...
Input: Real-time sensor stream
Transform: Aggregated and filtered
Output: Stream summary: 5 readings, avg: 22.1°C
=== Pipeline Chaining Demo ===
Pipeline A -> Pipeline B -> Pipeline C
Data flow: Raw -> Processed -> Analyzed -> Stored
Chain result: 100 records processed through 3-stage pipeline
Performance: 95% efficiency, 0.2s total processing time
=== Error Recovery Test ===
Simulating pipeline failure...
Error detected in Stage 2: Invalid data format
Recovery initiated: Switching to backup processor
Recovery successful: Pipeline restored, processing resumed
Nexus Integration complete. All systems operational.
How does the combination of method overriding and subtype
polymorphism enable building scalable, maintainable data processing
systems? What real-world engineering problems does this approach
solve?
18
Chapter VIII
Turn in and Submission
Turn in your assignment in your Git repository as usual. Only the work inside your repository will be evaluated during the defense. Don’t hesitate to double check the names of
your files to ensure they are correct.
During evaluation, you may be asked to explain polymorphic behavior,
demonstrate method overriding, extend your systems with new data
types, or modify processing behavior. Make sure you understand
how inheritance enables code reuse while allowing behavioral
specialization.
You need to return only the files requested by the subject of
this project. Focus on clean, well-documented code that clearly
demonstrates mastery of method overriding and subtype polymorphism
principles.
19